#What's the best way to study?
In terms of developing stable and reliable memories, [testing is better than studying](http://pss.sagepub.com/content/17/3/249.short).  But, it's hard to answer a question about something you know nothing about!  That's why study materials are built in to our learning packages to get you started.  The format of these materials follows a carefully selected system called **spaced learning**.  Spaced learning means you break up each concept into 10-15 intense study sessions.  Each session is repeated 3 times, with a 10-minute break in between.  Why?  Because _neuroscience_, that's why.  Specifically, because of the way your memory works.  Memory can be divided into two types, long-term and short-term.  Short-term memories are the kinds you develop cramming for a test: they might last you for a day or two, but they'll be gone after you write an exam.  If you want to remember something permanently, then you need to form long-term memories.  This kind of memory is formed in the brain through a neural process called long-term potentiation (LTP).  The cellular mechanisms behind LTP can be examined by [studying the neurons of bees](http://learnmem.cshlp.org/content/8/4/198.long), where it's been shown that spaced learning leads to the highest rates of LTP, and thus the formation of persistent, stable long-term memories.   Luckily for us, [it seems to work in people too](http://www.frontiersin.org/Journal/10.3389/fnhum.2013.00589/abstract).  So, the best way to study is to break content up into 10-15 minute packages, and review those packages three times, with a 10 minute break in between (where you can do something fun like draw a picture or go outside and play).  After the 3 repetitions are complete, you're ready to enter the testing phase.

#What's the best way to be tested?
Is it better to answer a question over an over, or to space things out?  It might surprise you to learn that scientists have known [since 1913](http://psychclassics.yorku.ca/Ebbinghaus/wozniak.htm) that distributed testing - where testing is spaced out over a long period of time, is far more effective than massed testing - where you answer questions over an over during a short period of time).  That's why each of our learning packages starts with the study phase described in the previous section, but then switches over to distributed testing, where you'll periodically receive text messages from us with quiz questions for you to answer.  You'll get feedback in real-time, and so you'll know whether you answered the question correct (this is also really important for boosting retention rates).

##So testing is good - but what's the best kind of test question?

Despite its prevalence in college classes, you often hear that multiple choice questions are a lousy way to learn, because they rely on recognition rather than recall.  However, this isn't necessarily the case, since it's recently been shown that you can get equally good results from [multiple choice questions, short answer questions, or some combination between the two](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24059563).  So while at this point we can confidently say that testing is really helpful when it comes to memorizing things, we can't say with the same confidence that multiple choice is _always_ better than short answer, or vice versa.  For this reason, we let our teachers contribute questions in three kinds of formats; multiple choice, True or False, and short answer.  Who knows, with enough data from our users, we may even be able to solve this dilemma ourselves.  Science!

##What kind of testing schedule is the best?

We already covered that distributed testing is way better than massed testing.  But what's the best way to spread out the testing over time?  There's a widespread belief out there that an expanding schedule, where more and more time is added between the tests, is the way to go.  This is a compelling (and very popular) idea, but there's actually very little experimental evidence to support this.  When you compare different spacing schedules, [you often don't find any difference between expanding, equal, or contracting ones](http://memory.psych.purdue.edu/downloads/2011_Karpicke_Bauernschmidt_JEPLMC.pdf).  In fact, what little research there is supporting the use of expanding schedules has focused on learning word pairs, which is not a good representation of learning demands in the real world.  When you actually look at more practical applications, like studying paragraphs of text, [you find no advantage for expanded schedules over other schedules like absolute, or contracting](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19966244).  So what kind of schedule do we use?  A random one!  What we're hoping for is that taking a quiz at random times might actually be better than an expanding, contracting, or absolute schedule, because it trains your brain to always be on its toes.  At the very least, we hope that getting quizzed at random times of the day (where you might just be sitting on the bus or waiting in line) might add an element of fun to the whole process.  Of course, if you want to initiate a quiz time on your own, then that's cool too!
